All right, thank thank for coming
everybody. We have looks like we have a
pretty good crowd here.
We are happy. We are delighted to have
Amanda King here.
Many of you probably already know
Amanda. She's she's become a very strong
and respected voice in the metabolic
oncology community. If you don't know
Amanda, she's got a thriving sub stack.
I think what 35,000?
Yeah, 45.
Yeah. 45. Oh my yeah, it's growing
exponentially.
And Amanda just has a new book that has
come out
that specializes on what the title is
metabolic drugs for cancer, which is
co-authored with Dr. Harry Kuhan.
All right. So, that would probably that
and metabolism is probably your
specialty would you repurpose drugs
which is a vast field. So so the goals
today
for everybody, what we want to hit touch
on is drug repurposing. Many of you
probably have heard of this concept, but
we want to give you a general
overview of what that is because it can
be confusing and how that's used in
oncology. We want to give you an
introduction to this idea of metabolic
oncology which Amanda specializes in
which is typically used as
adjunctive type therapies. In other
words, it it sort of prepares the body
um
to
for for standard of care and other other
modalities to to do better with less
side effects and better efficacy. And
then finally, we want to touch on what
we do at Astron Health, which is
this
>> [clears throat]
>> merger between um
precision medicine and drug repurposing.
That is another tool that clinicians can
have in their tool belt. So, we'll walk
you through our our latest version of
what we call the Polaris report.
So, let's start with um
Amanda, let's start with this just
general concept of drug repurposing so
so people can understand that better.
Sure. So, you'd like me to explain about
drug repurposing. Sure. Um okay. So, the
the idea is that we have
mainstream drugs and they've been
through the the regular trials for their
primary purpose. They've had their RCTs.
They've gone through full approval and
we know what they are specifically for.
So, drug repurposing is that we
understand the mechanisms of these drugs
for other reasons. So, we know that they
might do alternative or different kinds
of
have different kinds of actions to the
actions that they were originally
marketed for.
So,
what that would mean is that then we
would repurpose them for a different
kind of pathology like cancer. So, you
would take a diabetes drug like
metformin for example and while it would
not be originally marketed for cancer,
we would then actually use it in that
context along with other kinds of
therapies to to target the pathways that
we want.
Yeah, I think people get confused and
and what what what's so interesting
about this space is you get a drug like
you mentioned metformin
which is indicated for has one
indication, right? For for type 2
diabetes. It lowers blood sugar.
But then once it's been in the clinic,
it's I think it's one of the most widely
prescribed medications in the world. And
so over the ensuing decades um
it becomes a generic drug meaning it's
it's very cheap. And and you start to
notice clinical benefit in other disease
states. And and metformin was one of the
first ones to be noticed in cancer where
diabetics on metformin had a reduced
cancer rate compared to the general
healthy population. So, that was
extraordinary enlightening. And then now
now okay, now you have this this
[snorts] new, you know, very interesting
aspect to a drug.
But there's zero incentive for
pharmaceutical companies to to run the
necessary trials to win an FDA or
whatever regulatory body approval for
that indication. So, it just lingers in
this state. But academics, nonprofits,
other other entities get interested in
fund new studies. And so, you learn a
lot more about it, but it's it still
lingers in this non-approved state. Um
and you can go down the list. Many many
drugs and the And what I think you've
noticed and I've noticed Amanda is there
are so many.
But you get this sort of, you know, drug
de jour where it becomes popular. You
know, it was metformin for a long time.
Then it becomes I think fenbendazole
became very popular. Now ivermectin.
But they all, you know, they all hit and
I and the pharmacology is interesting,
right? Because they they hit so many
different pathways. Mhm. And your
research is extensive. I mean, you go
through natural products. You go through
weekly on your sub stack.
And and yeah, you could speak to that a
little bit about the the
just the vast potential of of different
targets.
Oh, I mean, it really is vast as well.
And and you know, some of the repurposed
drugs, I mean, there are also
supplements that target pathways. There
are interventions. Diet obviously is the
foundation of everything. Lifestyle
interventions, choices, therapies all
have impacts and we can trace it all
down to pathways. So, yeah, each week I
take a different subject. At the moment,
I'm working my way through
supplements and breaking down what they
do, what they were originally for, what
pathways they are best researched for.
And yeah, each individual drug as well.
Last year, I I went really into a lot of
depth with each one. So, some of them
work on many many different pathways
like berberine or metformin and some
might have specific sorts of
targets that we want. For example, with
doxycycline affecting mitochondria and
sensitizing stem cells to potentiate
chemotherapy and and other kinds of
medical treatments. So, you know,
there's all all different kinds of
mechanisms that we might want to bring
all into one full strategy.
Yeah, and that that's what's so
interesting is this idea of
comprehensive. So, tell tell everybody a
little bit about you [snorts]
have a you have a thriving clinic as
well where you would you you treat
cancer patients throughout all stages.
And and this idea of metabolic oncology,
you know,
nutrition, exercise, this sort of
comprehensive package of of What is
metabolic oncology? I guess it's a good
place to start. Yeah, fine.
Yeah, so it is true. I I do run a very
busy clinic online and I support cancer
patients at all stages with a variety of
um
different aspects of metabolic oncology.
And fundamental to all of that is diet.
So, we were just talking about metformin
and how it was found that the that
metformin as a diabetes drug was
associated when people were taking it
for type 2 diabetes with lower
incidences of cancer.
And so, we might take you could say one
step forward, but it might actually be a
step back and zoom out a little bit and
say well actually what what what is that
individual taking metformin for and what
caused that diabetes in the first place?
And we know that type 2 diabetes is
absolutely a disease of lifestyle. There
is no argument on this. Um it is caused
by an excess of sugar and and
carbohydrates. You know, that's that's
the root cause. So, in a in a way, what
we're doing is we're saying we're
working at it backwards by looking at it
in that way. We're saying okay, so we
noticed that people with unchanged
metabolism who continued with their diet
and lifestyle who then were regulating
their blood sugar with metformin had
reduced incidences of cancer.
So then, if we unwind all of that and go
back to the actual diet, if we take out
what's fanning the flames is there
anything left? If cuz it
the flames are fueled by something and
that fuel is clearly sugar in this
context. So then, we can see if we work
backwards how diet and metabolism, which
is how we make our energy and how we
process nutrients, is actually
foundational to everything.
Yeah. Yeah, that's good. And I think an
under-appreciated aspect of that too is
is insulin, right? Right. Because right,
when you lower blood sugar by
definition, you lower insulin. And and
insulin is a strong promoter of of um
cellular division.
And there's a really interesting you've
probably heard of the uh
there's a mutation that causes something
called Laron syndrome. A mutation in the
insulin-like growth factor receptor.
Right? So,
it causes dwarfism and there's a small
population of of people with Laron
syndrome in the mountainous region of
Ecuador. And so, they've been
extensively studied.
And they almost are immune to type 2
diabetes and cancer.
Wow. And despite a terrible lifestyle,
that they have huge rates of smoking and
alcoholism and terrible diets, but
they're literally almost immune to those
two disease states. And it can only be
because of that. They just don't respond
to insulin and insulin-like growth
factor. So, extraordinarily powerful
media and you can mediate those through
diet alone. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly.
Insulin growth factor growth Yeah,
exactly. And if we're talking about
cancer, we want to minimize
the growth of cancer, which is, you
know, that's where the link is with the
insulin. And yeah, lots to talk about in
that
>> there's all kinds of emerging data on on
the effects of of standard of care when
you're in I mean, Walter Longo has done
much on the fasted state, right? And
we're learning more and more about the
ketogenic diet.
So, yeah, do you
speak about that a little bit about that
that
that sort of
how does diet change the way standard of
care therapy, chemotherapy, radiation
can affect the body?
Yeah, so when we think about growth, we
we need to think about what's fueling
the growth.
I mean, you've written the book on
ketones yourself, so you're an expert in
this area.
But when we think about that, we think
about what you know, what what are the
hallmarks of cancer? We know that
they're rapidly dividing. We know that
they are driven by inflammation and that
actually inflammatory diets are the
typical the standard American diet, the
sad diet, the standard UK diet. You
know, these kinds of diets are full of
inflammatory seed oils, you know,
vegetable oils, sunflower oil, all drive
inflammation down the arachidonic acid
pathway. And also we again, you know,
these are you know, wheat is a
carbohydrate, but also it has, you know,
again, the omega-6s. Not that they are
entirely bad, but that there is just
such an over
immersion in these kinds of inflammatory
oils that we're just expressing
inflammation all the time.
So, really what you want to do is get
yourself into become the environment
that is actually hostile to cancer
growth. So, if you if you want to do
that, then you need to start thinking
about not only reducing inflammation. So
again, we're back to that thing, do we
put the fire out or do we take out the
fuel that causes the fire? You might
want to do both. But we can bring in all
the anti-inflammatories, but if we
actually get under that and remove the
things that are causing the
inflammation, then maybe there's less
interventions that are needed.
And that's really where the ketogenic
diet can come in because the ketogenic
diet is anti-inflammatory.
And ketones are effectively anti-cancer.
They're used
by healthy cells for fuel and not
particularly by cancer cells.
You know, and and yes, you know, it is
it's more of a kind of there are even
some arguments that
that this is more of a natural state for
a human body to be in in ketosis as
opposed to glucosis, would you say? Is
that would that be the right term?
More of a sugar
>> I just always say, yeah, carbohydrate
metabolism, right?
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, exactly. Carbohydrates, yeah.
>> it seems like it always comes back to
those two things. Um
metabolic your metabolic efficiency,
right? How how
or you can call it insulin sensitivity
and inflammation.
And and over and over we see those two
at least very least ex- strong
predictive factors for cancer incidence.
But also
prognostic value, you know, how well a
person's going to do with outcomes. And
so those two addressing and they can be
difficult to address those, but you get
glimpses of how critically important it
is, you know, that the new kids on the
block, immunotherapies
um just bringing a patient's vitamin D
status, if they're deficient, to normal
can can
improve the response rates to
immunotherapies by 100%.
Wow. So, if there's a 30% response rate,
they go to 60. That that is absolutely
dramatic and it gets so very little
attention because it's a vitamin D. You
know, it's not it's free, it's it's not
charged for, but it's the kind of
information that
patient it's absolutely critical for
them to know about those things. And
that's
you know, what you do so well is you you
catalog that information and and pass it
on.
>> [snorts]
>> But so we're
we're about yeah, we're 16. So, we got
let's let's transition to um
what we do at Astron.
And this is again, this is for people
that don't know what we do
in this vast world of drug repurposing,
of course, there's many ways to approach
it. And and Amanda, that's why we
appreciate you so much. You you we never
position ourselves as as anything other
than what we do, the one tool.
But obviously with metabolism and drug
repurposing, there's a sort of a core um
therapeutic effect you're after. Where
we come in is we can then layer an
addition additional layer of absolute
precision to that. And what we do
specifically is is couple drug
repurposing to
precision oncology. So, in other words
when a patient gets a genomic report, so
the cancer cells are sequenced what that
reveals is the the lesions within the
DNA of that cancer cell. And there's
basically two types of lesions. There
can be mutations in oncogenes.
And when there's mutations in oncogenes,
that's like turning on the gas pedal.
It's like pushing the gas pedal down on
on cell division. And the other type of
mutation is one in a what's called a
tumor suppressor. So, that's like the
brakes on the cell. When that's mutated
it takes off the brakes. So, the cell no
longer has
um controlling factors to keep it in
check.
And so we what we do is we target those
within each patient. And we and there's
are obviously FDA drug drug approved
drugs to do that. But unfortunately,
there only about 7% of the mutations
within patients are able to be targeted
by FDA drugs. When we expand that to
drug repurposing,
what we see is we can hit close to 80%
of those targets.
Um so, it's a big advantage. The other
thing we do is within this concept
called synthetic lethality. It's another
expansion of being able to hit targets.
When a tumor suppressor is mutated the
cell will com- compensate with another
pathway.
We can target that. And we can
Yeah, we're getting some feedback there.
>> [clears throat]
>> We must have lost her off, Pad.
That's okay. That's okay. I think Okay,
yeah, we're fine. We're good.
>> [laughter]
>> Yeah, we'll keep going. So, so yeah, so
so this concept of synthetic lethality,
there's there's
massive databases and and what we do at
Astron, we go to these bioinformatic
databases where we match repurposed
drugs to targets. We match
repurposed drugs to this concept of
synthetic lethality and then produce a
report for clinicians to go over with
you and decide on the best protocol
because within this universe of
supplements and repurposed drugs,
there's over 200 that have demonstrated
anti-cancer activity.
And our goal is to
to narrow this down to the list that is
going to have the most efficacy for each
patient. So, Pad, you you um you want to
walk everybody through the newest
version of our our reports? Yeah, of
course. Well, let me thank you both
wonderful talk so far. Really enjoyed
it. And I I'm going to try not to repeat
myself or anything that you've said. And
great to meet you all as well. Thanks
for being here. My name's Padmanabhan.
I'm one of the co-founders along with
Travis and the chief medical officer
here at Astron.
I'm a doctor by background. I kind of
work at the nexus of cancer medicine and
something called clinical pharmacology.
And we are a strange bunch of doctors
who are uniquely interested in what
drugs actually do within the body. Not
just what they're licensed to do like
Amanda was talking about earlier, but
actually what the true potential of
drugs are. And the reason that I think
that's really important in cancer is
that drug new drug development is
incredibly important. But it's
really quite time consuming. A new drug
normally takes 12 to 15 years to come to
market. And it costs somewhere between
three and five billion US dollars to
create. And there are so many different
drivers at so many different levels,
whether we're talking about
metabolism, epigenetics, genomics,
transcriptomics, whatever it might be.
And trying to find a drug for each
vulnerability is just going to take too
long and cost too much money. And that's
why we think drug repurposing is such an
important adjunctive strategy. I'm sure
most here will agree and I can see some
nodding heads. But I think from my
perspective, I'm going to share our
newest iteration of what we call the
Polaris report.
And just to make it really clear, I will
go into it a little bit about what it is
and isn't, but I think
from my side, the core idea that I would
like
to give you today is why we believe
cancer treatment needs to become more
personalized and try and explain what
we're doing about it at Astron. And this
is not a complete solution. There are
lots of people doing lots of amazing
things. And to be honest, we are trying
to empower clinicians and healthcare
professionals like Amanda um
to make their job easier. So, that in
addition to all of the work and all of
the intelligence and all of the
experience they have, that we can
synthesize all of the research that's
out there.
And we we do that looking at over
170,000 papers. It's impossible for each
clinician to do that for each patient
that they see.
So, forgive me. I'm going to start with
the basics. And and I'm sure you will
know this, but it's really important to
understand that cancer is not a single
disease. It's not even a small number of
disease diseases. Every individual's
cancer is completely biologically
unique. So, two people with the same
diagnosis in the same organ at the same
stage, presenting in the same clinic,
with the same ethnic background, at the
same age, can have tumors different
driven by completely different molecular
mechanisms. Different gene mutations,
different metabolic pathways, different
molecular vulnerabilities.
And I think
the core point to this is in clinical
practice today
the conventional treatment is still
largely based on what works on average
for that cancer type.
And that approach has saved
many, many millions of lives over time
and given people a lot of extra time on
this earth. It remains and will always
remain the foundation of cancer care.
But it has a few limitations. You know,
what works in the average patient may
not always be the best option for the
individual. And it might be that adding
some extra things in can really enhance
the effect.
And what has really changed over the
last 10 to 15 years is our ability to
look inside a tumor in extraordinary
detail. We can now analyze the DNA of
the cancer. We can see which genes are
active, which ones are switched off in
real time, which pathways are driving
growth, and which systems the tumor
depends on to survive.
Um
it's sort of essentially a molecular
fingerprint, I suppose, of your cancer.
But the key issue is the data is no
longer the problem. It's no longer the
limiting factor. The problem really is
making sense of it. And I think that's
where we come in. There are, yeah, as
I've alluded to, hundreds of thousands
of scientific papers looking at cancer
biology, drug mechanisms, resistance
pathways, therapy combinations, but no
clinician, no matter how experienced,
can realistically synthesize all of
that. And, you know, Travis and I tried,
and this is why we created Astron,
because it was a problem that we were
encountering in our clinical practice.
And it was taking us too much time for
each individual patient.
So, I'm just going to share my screen,
if that's okay, and I hope this works.
Bear with me.
Uh
So, can you all see this?
Travis, is that coming up for you?
Yeah?
>> Yeah, it's good. Yep, it's up there.
>> Okay.
So, this is this is I just want to make
this is a complete made-up case for a
test patient. It's not based on anyone
real. We have just made this up in you
know, and so none of the
um numbers and figures and genes, etc.,
here are going to be relevant to any
individual uh out there. So, please
don't take this as read. It's just to
show you an example of what our reports
look like, okay? Um so, this Polaris
report is designed to take the molecular
data that uh you know, testing companies
like Guardant or Tempus or Foundation
Medicine or Caris uh can deliver and
connect it to the global body of
scientific evidence, okay? Um so, you
can see here we have some headline
figures. Um I'm going to scroll past
them because they don't tell us too
much. Um and I'm going to come down a
little bit further.
Okay. So, we talked about metformin. So,
I'm going to I'm going to hover over
metformin.
The first thing that Polaris does is
that maps the biology of the tumor. It
identifies the key genes and pathways
and systems that are driving that
individual's cancer.
The second thing it does is it connects
those findings to the published research
and the binding evidence out there. It
looks at what the literature says about
those targets, which drugs interact with
them, which supplements, which lifestyle
interventions, what level of evidence
exists, where there may be resistance,
and importantly, this is not just
standard conventional cancer drugs, but
also repurposed drugs and even
supplements sometimes.
Third, uh and this is the critical bit,
it also looks at how these different
targets relate to each other.
Um as Travis and and Andrew have said,
cancer is not driven by single
mutations. It's very much a network
disease. So, rather than thinking in
terms of one drug for one mutation,
Polaris explores potential combinations
and interactions.
Travis has already talked about
synthetic lethality, so I won't talk
about it again here. Um but we very much
work um with that.
Okay. So,
I just want to use metformin as a
particular example here. This is a
made-up patient with eight separate
molecular vulnerabilities, and these are
the targets that you can see here. Okay?
And this is very much a report that goes
to your clinician. There's also an
executive summary, which I'm going to
show you in a second, which is a much
simpler read of this, because trying to
go through all of this information in a
in a sort of
uh short webinar or even in a consult is
is too much.
But for every drug and target finding in
the report, we attach four objective
scores. So, we haven't made these up. Uh
and I just want to quickly explain what
those scores mean, okay? So, I'm going
to look at metformin here.
Okay. So, one of the targets that this
patient made-up patient has is that they
have an overexpression of the mTOR
pathway, which is involved um in you
know, insulin and glucose signaling and
metabolism. And metformin has been
identified as a potential treatment
here.
The first score is called the G score,
and the G stands for gene.
Um it reflects how much published
research exists on this particular gene
in this particular individual's type of
cancer, and how central the gene is in
cancer biology generally. So, a high G
score, and this is quite a high G score,
of 73, means that we're looking at a
gene that sits at a center of how this
particular cancer is likely to have
formed and grown and survived.
A lower G score still means that the
gene is real and it's worth knowing
about, and it's yeah, it but it's less
central to the bigger picture here. So,
it's a way of the clinician prioritizing
targets
or the importance of targets. The second
score is the D score, and the D stands
for drugs.
And it captures two things together,
really. The first thing is how
well-established uh the drug is in
oncology,
um and the second thing is the approval
status of the drug. So, um you can see
on the left here this drug talazoparib,
um which is an FDA-approved drug in um
certain cancers with a BRCA1 mutation,
that's got a D score of 100. And that
basically means this is an approved
cancer drug,
and it's approved in targeting that
particular biomarker. Whereas metformin
is a drug that is approved in diabetes,
as Amanda mentioned earlier,
but it's not an approved cancer drug,
okay? So, it's not licensed for use in
cancer, but it can be used off-label.
Okay?
The third score is this evidence score.
Um and the evidence score really is
exactly what it sounds like. It's all
around how much published research is
behind this particular finding. How many
peer-reviewed papers, what kind of
studies are they? Are they uh
meta-analyses or randomized clinical
trial data? Is it from laboratory
studies, preclinical or animal studies?
Um or is it computational data? And and
the more robust and validated the data
is, the higher that score, okay? A high
evidence score means there's a
substantial body of published work that
supports this recommend but not that
this particular finding, not
recommendation. And the fourth score is
a binding score, and this is the most
technical of the four, um but it's it's
worth understanding, I think. Um so,
when a a researcher say a drug acts on a
particular target, the claim can be
supported in different ways. Sometimes
the drug has been shown in lab
experiments or simulations to physically
bind to the target molecule, and that's
direct evidence. Uh in other cases, the
drug seems to affect the same biological
pathway, but it doesn't directly bind to
the target itself. Um and the binding
score captures, really, whether direct
binding has been demonstrated. And so,
for something like talazoparib, which is
an FDA-approved drug, there's a good
binding score, um which is a kind of
molecular-level confirmation that drug A
binds to target B. Um whereas with
metformin, actually, in this context,
there isn't any binding data. That
doesn't mean that the drug isn't going
to hit this target. It just means that
the research hasn't been done, and
that's what we're dealing with, an
incomplete scientific corpus at the
moment. And as that fills out, our
engine will also improve.
Um and so, the overall Astron score here
is kind of an index of those four
individual scores for every intervention
and every target, okay? This score is
not a prediction um or a comparison of
how well a particular agent will work in
this patient. It's not a percentage
chance of response. We can't tell that
at all.
But it's just a way of organizing the
published research so that the clinician
can,
you know, um look at what the most
strongly supported findings are. This is
very much not software as a medical
device. It's designed to make your
clinician's decision-making a little bit
easier, okay? Um
so, this is the Polaris report. Um and
there is I just want to quickly and
don't want to talk for too long.
You there, Andrew? All right.
Oh, I think there's a bit of feedback.
Um I'm just going to quickly run you
through what we call our executive
summary,
and I will stop, I promise.
Okay. And this is a much shorter summary
of
the same patient that we're talking
about,
but it captures
much of the detail that I've just spoken
about in a in a much shorter clinical
letter, essentially. And this is all
intended to be interpreted by the
clinician. So, it summarizes the
vulnerabilities at the top. Um it tells
us a bit about the tumor biology um and
what it actually means, what the main
pathways that are driving this person's
disease at this moment in time are from
the molecular testing. Um and then it
orders them into axes. So, we're not
treating one mutation with,
you know, one drug. We're trying to
group them together, as Amanda talked
about, to say, "Well, what is driving
this right now? You know, what are the
main strategies that we need to employ?
Is it inflammation? Is it DNA repair
problems? Uh is it angiogenesis, new
blood vessel creation? Is it insulin
glucose signaling?" And then we try to
list the potential interventions by
their Astron scores and the categories,
so whether they are FDA-approved
oncology drugs, whether they are drug
repurposing candidates, or whether they
are supplements, okay? Um and there are
some here. So, if we look at the second
axis here, which is all about resisting
programmed cell death, there isn't
actually an FDA-approved drug for this
particular pathway. And that's where
repurposing becomes really important
because there are proportionate
tolerable safe interventions that may be
useful in the setting. And at the
moment, patients just aren't getting
access to them. And so, what we are
trying to do is to democratize
and
objectify the data that enables
clinicians to make the best possible
decisions for each of you.
Um so, I'm going to stop there. I hope
that was helpful. Travis, is there
anything else you want me to cover or do
you think that's
enough?
I think that's a good overview, Pad, and
let's people feel free to
put questions in the chat.
We got a lot of time for for questions
for Amanda, for Pad, for
anything practical. And there's there's
So, go ahead and type those in the chat.
There's one right now, Pad. Um
Um how how is the sample of the
patient's cancer obtained?
That's a great question. And before I
Before I answer that, that's a great
question. I will come on to it. I just
want to quickly just
say
both the executive summary and the
Polaris report, the encyclopedic one, I
just want to be clear that they are not
a
prescription or a treatment plan. They
don't replace your oncologist or your
integrative practitioner. It doesn't say
this is what you should take. What it
says is here is the the full landscape
of evidence relevant to your specific
cancer's biology. And and treatment
decisions depend on much more than just
molecular data, right? They depend on
your overall health, your previous
treatments, your tolerance of side
effects, your blood test results, what's
available in your health care system,
where you are in your treatment journey,
and your oncologist, your integrative
practitioner,
understands all of that. And and they
remain central to every decision. What
we are trying to do in real time is just
give them
the the relevant research data so that
they can make the most informed
decisions for you without having to do
10 hours worth of research themselves,
which is just impossible, okay? And
great question um in terms of how you
get the sort of next generation
sequencing done. Um it very much depends
on where you are in the world. And and
just to say from Astron's point of view,
we're not actually a testing company.
So, the the the reports that we create
are very much based on what we call next
generation sequencing testing. So, that
is when many companies across the world
do this um where uh
they they sample either your blood or
actually the tissue from the cancer
directly.
Um and they look very deeply at the
alterations at a DNA level, which is the
kind of genetic fingerprint of the
cancer, but also importantly at a
pathway at an RNA or a protein level.
And that's super important, especially
when we're talking about metabolic
oncology because often
DNA mutations don't give us the full
picture of what is driving the cancer.
Okay, so for an example here, if someone
has dysregulated insulin and glucose
signaling,
often they won't have a mutation in the
particular genes that control insulin
and glucose signaling.
However, when we look at the protein
pathways and the gene expression
patterns, we often see things like mTOR
or PIK3CA or PI3K, and these are genes
that are involved in that type of
insulin glucose regulation are hugely
overexpressed, okay? Um so, the thing
to talk about here is is trying to get
next generation molecular sequencing at
both a DNA and an RNA level, okay? And
we will send out a primer on all of this
so you understand all these terms and
and what to ask for. Um in North
America, uh specifically in in the US, a
lot of these tests are done on most
patients and they're covered by
insurance. So, a lot of patients that we
have in the US will already have this
testing done, even in cancers where
there is no precision oncology drug that
can be used, okay? So, often patients
come to me and they say, "Well, I
haven't had this done." And and we go
back and and and their practitioner
looks through their data and they
actually have had the testing done. And
we can work on that report.
Elsewhere in the world, um it's uh it
very much depends on your cancer type.
Um Astron are very well placed to help
with all of that, and it depends on your
specific situation. In the UK, for
example, we can help organize molecular
testing um and, you know, we can sort of
package that up with a Polaris report
and a consultation with a Astron-linked
clinician who can go through that report
with you, help you understand it, um and
and actually prescribe relevant
medicines or supplements or lifestyle
interventions for you based on that. And
that's really important because this is
not just a report that a patient should
have and actually themselves. In fact,
that you can't do that. We have to send
this report to a clinician, wherever in
the world you are. So, um I think what
we are going to do, and I think this
segues into the next part of this,
Travis, is we're going to have a a
follow-up call next Monday, which is all
about practical steps. So, to help guide
you in terms of where do I go next? What
do I do next? Because I wish there was a
one-size-fits-all path for everyone,
um but unfortunately just
the regulations around how you get
molecular testing, who orders it for
you, how we have to engage with them,
it's slightly different based on your
geographies.
Yeah.
And
along the you already Let's see, you
answered a couple of those already, Pad,
within there. Can you use an existing
report? Yes. Absolutely. Can it be done
in Canada? What is the price and the
turnaround time?
Yeah, so
the price is very much
So, the Astron
Okay, let me start at the beginning. The
cost of next generation sequencing is
really dependent on what test you get
and whereabouts in the world you are.
Again, often in North America, this can
be covered on insurance and it's very
much the
largest part of the cost. Um in
everywhere apart from North America,
where we can organize testing for
patients as well as our reports, the
cost is £4,450.
That includes full molecular testing,
the Astron Polaris report, and a
clinical consultation with one of our
partner clinicians, okay? In the US and
Canada, we we actually can't do that
because the uh testing and the reporting
um has to be done um through a uh a
clinician who has a relationship of care
with the patient, okay? So, we have lots
of partner clinicians that we work with
in the US. So, if you're in the US or
Canada, we work with people all across
the country who have, you know,
licensure across every state in both
Canada and the US, and so we can
organize a clinician if yours doesn't
work with us already to be able to order
an Astron report, order molecular
testing, and then we can send the
results to them and they can go through
it with you. So, we have a solution for
every single patient. Um and what we
encourage you to do is we're going to
send an email out to every single one of
you with a with a Google form at the end
of this so that if any of you are
interested in in in taking this further,
we can get your individualized data and
we can get back to you on
matching you to a specific clinician and
telling you what the process would look
like for you.
All kinds of good questions. Um
propanolol
as as
And Amanda, you can jump in on this,
too. I'm sure you have opinions on
propanolol.
It's been suggested addition to lineup
of repurposed drugs.
What would be the best way to determine
if this would be beneficial?
Can a specific drug be looked at or
requested to be looked at in the Polaris
report?
>> [clears throat]
>> So, there's kind of two parts to that.
So, the part with the propanolol and um
how that how that might work as a
repurposed drug. Well, first of all, um
you know, propanolol is a beta-blocker,
so it blocks the beta-adrenergic
receptors on the heart. So, um what that
does is it actually stops adrenaline
from being um a driver of the cancer
process. And for some kinds of cancer,
that is actually quite a significant
driver, but not for all. We know that
stress is inflammatory, of course.
That's a and at more of an inflammatory
state. But um but propanolol itself can
be particularly useful with certain
kinds of cancer. So, it can be used um
as, you know, significantly as an
off-label drug um in that context. And
um and some patients have found it
useful for other reasons as well, you
know, it's been um been quite helpful.
Um and, you know, I think the other part
of that question was um how whether a
person can ask you directly um about a
specific drug.
Yeah, great question. And and the answer
is
uh yes, we can, but the Astron
Polaris report already we are completely
um we try to be objective. So, we are
not tied to a specific philosophy. We're
agnostic to what the literature um and
the data and the the bioinformatics
throws up. So, if propanolol So, we
we've ingested all of the papers around
propanolol in cancer. And if you have a
particular molecular vulnerability
um or alteration um that propanolol
might have good evidence that it can
target, it will flag up on your um
Polaris report. It's, you know, if we
had a situation where we had to ask
every time, we wouldn't have a very good
product. Um it wouldn't be very useful.
Um so,
it will do that um you know,
automatically. And the other thing to
say is that as the corpus of evidence,
which is kind of building up every
month, there are new papers, new
studies, new analyses, etc. Um the the
whole point of our report is that it's
on a webflow app, which is dynamic. So,
the report will continuously update, the
scores will change, you'll get
notifications as things change in real
time. So, the report is dynamic over
time. Um
there was another question, Travis, that
I just wanted to
maybe you
you want to answer this one, Travis. It
was about Emma said at 1:34, "How how do
we know that the molecular composition
of my cancer is the same now as it was
taken from a biopsy done, for example,
in 2023 if I've not had further
biopsies?" So, how do we know it's the
same and what can we do if it's not the
same?
Yeah, no, well, the the way
the way a tumor evolves is is very
interesting. There there
every every according to what we know
about next generation sequencing, every
tumor when it initiates
has a founding set of core mutations
that will persist throughout the
life of that tumor.
Then what happens as it divides, you get
what's called subclonal populations
where new mutations are introduced.
So,
if you had a biopsy in 2023, we would
theoretically detect all of those
founding mutations. However, we would
miss all the new subclonal mutations
that have arrived in the meantime.
So, I and I think Pat would agree with
this and Amanda would agree with this.
Um
the newer the better. However, if that's
not possible, the old can still be
useful.
Is that how you guys would characterize
that? Yeah, I think so. The only other
thing I would say is that there is also
the option of doing blood-based testing
and depending on where the cancer is and
you know
capturing tissue um is is great because
you get a large number of cells that you
can do a really sensitive analysis on.
But I would never advocate for going to
take a tissue sample specifically to do
a next generation sequencing molecular
test, okay? So, in patients who have
more advanced disease where there's
likely to be circulating tumor cells in
the blood and circulating tumor DNA and
RNA in the blood, there are some really
fantastic liquid biopsy tests where they
can just take a peripheral blood draw
and they can do the testing through
that. Um the positive of that is it kind
of captures the the heterogeneity of the
tumor. So, if you've got lesions in
different places, they can have
different evolutions and have different
genes or pathways driving them and it
captures that. The negative is that
there's probably less tumor that you can
actually sample in the blood than you
can from a biopsy. So, sometimes with
you know
you know, very small percentage
mutations, there's a chance of false
negatives. Um but they are getting
better and better. There are lots of
companies that do them. Um they're very
common and that's another way of doing
things. And I get again, part of what we
do at Astron is to advise you on that to
you know, cuz it it very much should be
taken in the clinical context. So, in
this particular case, if you had a
sample done in 2023, you've not had any
further biopsies, but you've not had
very much treatment since then and
you're very stable, actually, maybe
that's still worth just working on that
particular sequencing that you had.
However, if the situation's different
and you've had chemo or immunotherapy
and things are very different now or
likely to be different then we would
generally advise getting another sample
a maybe a blood-based test done.
Um but great question.
Yeah.
We have we have one question on
prevention and Amanda, you can come in
on this too because
patients that are currently NED
um
and wondered if also wondered if a
liquid biopsy would still show levels of
circulating cancer cells and if this
would be relevant for prevention
maintenance and Pat, you've had actually
designed clinical trials for this very
question. Um
Yeah, that's that's a different concept
of of but it it's sort of the same core
principles about prevent preventing
cancer general and especially people
that are NED.
Yeah, um so what
what
I I think it's hard because
organizing studies on
Do you mean prevention on recurrence
here, Travis? That the the question at
1:30. Yeah, it's a great question. So,
so there is a lot of new testing that's
now available where um patients are
getting um
tested for what we call MRD or molecular
residual disease where someone's had
curative surgery or radiotherapy and
their disease is determined to be
you know, not present anymore at that
sort of macroscopic level, but we can
now do testing at a molecular level and
a proportion of patients still have
circulating cancer DNA in their blood.
And there is a big blank space in terms
of what we can do there because we can't
actually see the tumor on on a scan and
therefore we can't cut it out or
irradiate it, but we can measure it in
the blood.
Um and the trials around chemotherapy
have not demonstrated a significant
benefit. Um and so in terms of you know,
what we're hoping to do in the kind of
Astron context is to see whether
using a a really proportionate tolerable
combination of interventions
um in that setting can actually reduce
the risk of recurrence in people who
have circulating cancer DNA. Um that is
you know, a really important you know,
period, that survivorship period where
at the moment we kind of treat people,
we look at the scans, we say there's
nothing there and then we sort of almost
wait you know
and hope that there isn't going to be a
recurrence. Um it's a bit like treating
the patient with a heart attack
incredibly well and then not dealing
with the risk factors I suppose, the the
blood pressure and the cholesterol etc.
Um and that's
a completely different type of study and
trial and it's it's going to need a lot
of data over a long period of time
because you know, a lot of people who
have curative treatment stay cured and
and never recur again, which is great.
Um but that is exactly one of the the
studies that we're trying to design with
with one of the partner institutions
that we work with at the moment.
Great question.
>> Amanda, you have I mean that's when your
expertise really comes in critical
because this concept of recurrence um
of course correlates with inflammation
and metabolism and and so you you can
I'm sure you have advice for that those
scenarios as well. What what's the
lifestyle adjustments and nutrition
that's critical?
Yeah, exactly because we um we don't
always know whether circulating tumor
DNA test whether it is alive cancer
cells that are circulating or whether
it's residual just from treatment. And
so um also not everybody has those kinds
of tests available and I think we
touched on it earlier, which is about
really making the environment as hostile
to a cancer progression situation as
possible. And we want to use every
single tool in the toolkit to do that.
You know, the Astron report is a great
um adjunct to um the process of creating
that hostile environment, which includes
as we mentioned before like at diet,
lifestyle and potentially supplements
addressing deficiencies and making sure
that all of the um Nasha Winters talks
about this so well with her terrain 10,
you know, all of the different kinds of
metabolic drivers of cancer that each
one is addressed. Um so yeah, that is
it's very useful to understand that, but
from a maintenance perspective, pretty
much uh you know, while not everybody
may want to continue on a ketogenic
diet, everybody with cancer or you know,
who looks to prevent cancer should
absolutely be low carbohydrate and then
there are loads of different kinds of
interventions like fasting. You
mentioned Walter Longo earlier.
Um and and all sorts of other kinds of
therapies that might um
uh upregulate longevity mechanisms in
the body, which would be the same as
anti-cancer mechanisms. So, yeah,
there's a lot you can do.
Yeah.
Yeah, and if we don't hit your question,
please remember as Pat said, what what
is the practical Q&A
>> It's it's it's it's next week, but what
I would also say is that we will get
back to every single one of you. We have
your contact details, we will get back
maybe what we'll do is go through all of
these questions and draft answers to all
of them and and kind of send them to you
all
as part of the follow-up to this email.
Uh sorry, as a as an email follow-up to
this webinar because I think there's
some great questions in there. Um I just
want to get through a couple of them
very quickly. So, I think Stephen um at
1:33 asked, "What if you have a report
of your mutations, but no evaluation for
repurposed drugs? Can you use that
report?" Absolutely 100%. So, and I
think this links in a little bit later
with someone who's asked about the Data
test, Ian at 1:38 who said, "How
reliable and indicative of effectiveness
is the Data test?" The Data test results
are diminished by clinical oncologists
on the grounds that they are in vitro
and not in vivo and don't take into
account the role of the immune system.
How closely do chemotherapeutic agents
in a Data test correspond to human
impact?
I think both of those are important
questions. The truth is I I'm look, we
are not a testing company. It's really
difficult for me to comment on
individual testing companies. When we as
a research organization ingest data from
the testing companies output, we only
look at um the kind of objective data
from DNA and RNA and protein, okay? The
sort of testing that is done on which
chemotherapy is killing your cancer
cells best in a in a Petri dish and
which repurposed drugs are doing that,
we don't actually use any of that data
to craft our Polaris reports because it
it's just something that is difficult
for us to validate. It doesn't kind of
sit within the established framework
through which you know, doctors make
clinical decisions. Um that doesn't mean
it's a good test or a bad test. It's
just really difficult for us to use that
data cuz it's so different from
everything else. Whereas where all of
the testing companies are the same are
how they process data on DNA and RNA and
proteins. So um to answer both
questions, um what we can do is we can
work with any testing company that has
processed either your blood or your
tissue and has done molecular sequencing
to look at your DNA mutations, your RNA
uh you know expression patterns. And we
take the raw data from that and do our
analysis. Okay, and then with that's
what we pass through to people like
Amanda or clinicians that we that we
work with. Um
I hope that answers both your questions.
Uh Roger at 1:39 has said, "What would
be the process to engage regardless of
where you're located step-by-step so we
know what to do first?" That will follow
in the email that we will send you uh
today or first thing tomorrow, Roger. Um
and there is also a way if any of you
would like to book a call in with with
me or Travis or one of our scientific
and medical team to discuss your
specific case so we can kind of
customize your pathway. If you go on to
our website at astron.health.
It's just
www.astron.health.
Um and if you scroll down, you can book
a call with one of us and we'd be
delighted to take you through or you can
actually also arrange a callback and we
will call you back or you can email us
at support@astron.health
and we will get back to you straight
away. Okay?
>> [snorts]
>> There there's a great question here,
Pat, that um my protocol and why this is
so as you framed this earlier, this is a
report um for clinicians to
uh
you know
that have that have been in the clinic
for a long time and have the expertise
about drug drug interactions and and
everything. My protocol of repurposed
drugs has caused me to feel a bit sick,
loss of appetite, loss of weight.
So so that that's where the clinician
come Amanda, you can and both you and
Pat can speak to that.
>> [clears throat]
>> Yeah, and and in that kind of situation
um repurposed drugs, supplements, and
diet, then um it is really important to
make sure that you have regular contact
with your clinician. Make sure that
you're talking about what your diet
looks like um because regular like
unintended weight loss shouldn't be a
side effect of um of any of these
protocols. So if that is happening, then
it would be something that you might
need to adjust your diet. It might be
that there's an area of um of that
that's not working out for you or there
might be some nausea or some kind of
side effect that's affecting you
personally that you might need to raise
with your practitioner.
Okay, Pat, what what's the difference
between the question here? What's the
difference between the new Astron report
and the older version? I've already had
an older report done.
Um
Yeah, I it is a great question. Now
there's also um please just please do
contact us as well and we can we can
talk through uh what we do next on that.
Um but I think there's a few changes on
this report. The first is just the
amount of data that the new report
automatically ingests. So the all of the
data out there is not Astron has not
created any of this data. It's all open
source data from publicly available
uh data sets. It's just that we have
created an engine to ingest all of that
data, make sense of it in a really
robust and objective manner um and
process it in a way that clinicians can
use um on every patient. Um so it
ingests over 170,000 peer-reviewed
papers, multiple open source networks in
terms of binding data, and actually
provides transparent scoring. So that
every you know intervention, every
target gene or pathway um is um is there
and and the clinician understands you
know how important it might be for that
patient um and how they might want to
prioritize certain interventions. But
again, to lead back to the previous
answer from Amanda, I think you answered
that perfectly. Again, a report, a piece
of paper doesn't take into account the
context of the patient sitting in front
of you. Um and that is the most
important thing.
Yeah, we have we have we are we can take
probably one or two more. Um Amanda, do
you
The question is Amanda, do you use this
in your practice and and how successful
has it been in treatment? But probably
that's one of those questions you know,
obviously we are we are
And and that's a time dependent
question, but um where where we kind of
hang
right now is there are multiple studies
that show in precision oncology that the
more targets that are able to be hit,
the better the clinical outcomes.
Um
But yeah, you can go ahead and speak to
that, Amanda.
Yeah, um actually some amazing success
using the Astron reports in my clinic.
Um
one of those is Dale who uh some people
will have heard of here who also used
one of the Astron reports while he was
working with me um
around a year ago. Um and um a couple of
other people who obviously I'm I'm not
going to mention names, but who have
used these kinds of reports and we've
worked with that information amongst
everything else and they have achieved
well NED status. Um one woman in
particular I'm thinking of in the
states. Um and also you know what what
we're not what what I wouldn't say is
that everything hinges on one thing
because as Travis was just saying, it is
a multi um faceted kind of approach and
um actually, Pat, you said it would be
impossible to spend 10 hours on a on a
client. I once spent 12 hours
researching on one client. So it has
happened. Um and yeah, so these kinds of
reports do really help because um people
like who work in the way that I do after
I've taken information in a consult, I
then go away and sometimes it can take
hours and hours researching for that
person. So a report like this really can
help to hone that down and help to
really bring things in. But it doesn't
mean that everything that is suggested,
you know, as you were saying earlier
that everything that's suggested would
be just well, I can just take the
report, I can cherry-pick the top
percentages, and I can just create my
own protocol. It might work, but it
actually could backfire quite badly if
there's something else in your um
regimen or some other diagnosis or um
you might end up with a lot more
supplements than you actually need. So a
clinician who understands the pathways
um behind these supplements might
understand that they could use one
supplement for two different aspects
instead of two supplements for two and
start to kind of really fine-tune that
protocol down so that it is a much nicer
protocol rather than 30 supplements
which some people really do find they're
taking.
And the other thing I was going to say
is I noticed quite a few of my patients
in the list there. Hello. And um
one thing that
one thing that we can do if you are
interested in having the Astron report
is do come through me and I will make
sure that you're sent back to me um so
we can tie that into your work with me
personally.
That's perfect. Yeah, if there's
anything else, that takes us to the
hour. So if there's anything else you
two want to add at the end,
then we'll close it up.
I was just going to say uh we will get
back to all of you that have asked
questions uh individually. I'm sorry
that we haven't got to every single
question. There's some quite personal
ones here that we will endeavor to get
back to each of you individually. But if
anyone wants to reach us, please do go
on our website. I've put a couple of
links in the chat there on astron.health
or you can email us at
support@astron.health
um and we will you you can book a
callback, you can book in a call with
us. Um ask us any questions, we will get
back to you straight away and um tell
you what the right process is for you.
Thank you so much.
Thank you, everybody. Thank you so much,
Amanda, for joining us doing this today.
It's my pleasure.
You're in the UK. Have a lovely evening
and
for us in America, we're just going to
start our day. So everyone have a
wonderful rest of the day and take care
and and again, like Pat said, just reach
out.
Thank you.
Thank you, everybody. Thank you, Amanda.
Bye, everyone.